>> Scott Moss: So I'm gonna show
you a little more exercises and
then you're gonna jump into the exercise
and try to get some of this stuff to work.
So we talked about validation.
Someone asked a question about that.
We talked about how to do more fields.
And then I haven't showed
you how to create.
So I'm gonna show you
all those right quick,
that way you can get a feel
of what they feel like.
I can leave this code up too,
but then you're gonna go off and
you're gonna do a lot of that yourself.
So the first thing is,
I wanna talk about a little deeper dive
into how these schemas are created,
and a little more different type
of fields and stuff you can do.
So for instance, if we wanted to
add a validation to first name.
What you can do, instead of putting
a type here, you put an object.
And then object, you can use the keyword,
type and actually put the type like this.
>> Scott Moss: There's no difference than
what I had before in this, because all
I'm adding is a type filled, but now this
allows me to add more meta information.
So now I can say the first
thing is actually required now.
And I put require true.
So now the first thing is required.
So if I try to save a student without
this firstName supplied, it mongoose,
which is error out,
it's like nope can't do it.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's how you can do one validation here.
Other thing I wanted to show you is that
the sweet thing about mongoose that you
can just do nested structures, right?
So if I had a student here student
here and then I had info property
about the student, and maybe the info
was the school that the student went to.
And that has a type of string.
>> Scott Moss: And
this was the shoe size of the student..
[LAUGH] I don't know why you
need your student shoe sizes,
but I'm just thinking
about shoes right now.
[LAUGH] And this could be a type: Number.
>> Scott Moss: And
this could go on and on and on.
You can nest this object
as much as you want.
I mean, you could set
validations on these fields, and
you could do all different
types of things if you wanted.
And array type.
So, faveFoods for the students.
You can add an array type here and you
literally just add an array literal and
then inside of there it's
the same thing you've been doing.
It's an object with the type and
I could say string.
So, this faveFoods is an array of strings.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Follow to that,
it's not completely the same
thing It's just not to mongoose.
So okay, what happened if you
nest things like that inside and
then you want to access them on their own,
like schools and things?
>> Scott Moss: You mean if you want
to query for them on their own?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah exactly, cuz
somebody has school types, for example,
and then you have it inside and
then you have it outside.
Is it easy to do?
>> Scott Moss: It's pretty easy to do,
yeah.
So the query is aware of how
you set your schemas up.
So you can do dot notation in the queries,
and I could show you
how those queries work.
But yeah it's pretty simple to do.
So there's nothing
stopping me from saying,
give me a student whose
info dot school is blank.
Yeah cool, so yeah,
you can play around with this.
There's a lot more things you can do here.
I mean, like I said, you can go pretty
deep with this stuff and get nested.
So, just actually just give
an example of that unique one,
you can just put unique true here.
And then now this is an index for
unique, it's not a validation.
Required is a validation, unique is
an index, so there's a difference.
If I put unique true here,
now the first name is gonna be
unique to the entire collection.
So, there could be no student
with two first names now.
With the two same first names.
That's what this does,
just for this collection.
If I had another collection called apples
and then had a first name then they could
have the same name, but
for student collection no.